the mastermind controlling the game is
the joker
he comes out in the end for a short
while as part of the story
all the players who survived till the
last game after beating the king and
queen cards were given a chance to
decide if they want to return back to
real life or continue to face the other
players in borderland
when they were returned to tokyo they
don't remember playing in the game at
the borderland and the truth is that
japan was struck by a meteorite
the fireworks at the starting of the
show at shibuya was the meteorite
it was not the fireworks as the
characters thought
the players entered into the game on
different days based on their time of
death
those closer to the epicenter of the
impact died first
hence entering the game earlier the
disaster killed a lot of people
the players who played and returned to
tokyo were dead for a minute
the players who were dead in the game
were left dead
it was hinted that joker is the
intermediary that brings souls when they
passed away
joker decided to start the games in the
borderland to give chances to those who
passed away that wants to live on as
there were too many deaths
the joker is trying to be kind